%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Java Module Tutorial 1 - Pointer Detector Filter
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

This web application consists on a `WebRTC`:term: video communication in mirror
(*loopback*) with a pointer tracking filter element.


For the impatient: running this example
=======================================

First of all, you should install Kurento Media Server to run this demo. Please
visit the :doc:`installation guide <../../installation_guide>` for further
information. In addition, the built-in module ``kms-pointerdetector`` should be
also installed. Kurento Media Server should be restarted in order to load the
new plugin:

.. sourcecode:: sh

    sudo apt-get install kms-pointerdetector
    sudo service kurento-media-server restart

Moreover, `JDK`:term: (at least version 7), `Maven`:term:, `Git`:term:, and
`Bower`:term: should be installed in your system. Bower is installed using
`npm`:term: (`Node.js`:term: package manager). In an Ubuntu machine it can be
done as follows:

.. sourcecode:: sh

   sudo apt-get install curl
   curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup | sudo bash -
   sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
   sudo npm install -g bower

To launch the application you need to clone the GitHub project where this demo
is hosted and then run the main class, as follows:

.. sourcecode:: sh

    git clone https://github.com/Kurento/kurento-tutorial-java.git
    cd kurento-tutorial-java/kurento-pointerdetector
    mvn clean compile exec:java

The web application starts on port 8080 in the localhost by default. Therefore,
open the URL http://localhost:8080/ in a WebRTC compliant browser (Chrome,
Firefox).

Understanding this example
==========================

This application uses computer vision and augmented reality techniques to detect
a pointer in a WebRTC stream based on color tracking.

The interface of the application (an HTML web page) is composed by two HTML5
video tags: one for the video camera stream (the local client-side stream) and
other for the mirror (the remote stream). The video camera stream is sent to
Kurento Media Server, which processes and sends it back to the client as a
remote stream. To implement this, we need to create a `Media Pipeline`:term:
composed by the following `Media Element`:term: s:

.. figure:: ../../images/kurento-module-tutorial-pointerdetector-pipeline.png
   :align:   center
   :alt:     WebRTC with PointerDetector filter in loopback Media Pipeline

   *WebRTC with PointerDetector filter in loopback Media Pipeline*

The complete source code of this demo can be found in
`GitHub <https://github.com/Kurento/kurento-tutorial-java/tree/master/kurento-pointerdetector>`_.

This example is a modified version of the
:doc:`Magic Mirror <./tutorial-1-magicmirror>` tutorial. In this case, this
demo uses a **PointerDetector** instead of **FaceOverlay** filter.

In order to perform pointer detection, there must be a calibration stage, in
which the color of the pointer is registered by the filter. To accomplish this
step, the pointer should be placed in a square in the upper left corner of the
video, as follows:

.. figure:: ../../images/kurento-module-tutorial-pointerdetector-screenshot-01.png
   :align:   center
   :alt:     Pointer calibration stage

   *Pointer calibration stage*

In that precise moment, a calibration message from the client to the server.
This is done by clicking on the *Calibrate* blue button of the GUI.

After that, the color of the pointer is tracked in real time by Kurento Media
Server. ``PointerDetectorFilter`` can also define regions in the screen called
*windows* in which some actions are performed when the pointer is detected when
the pointer enters (``WindowInEvent``event) and exits (``WindowOutEvent``event)
the windows. This is implemented in the server-side logic as follows:

.. sourcecode:: java

   // Media Logic (Media Pipeline and Elements)
   MediaPipeline pipeline = kurento.createMediaPipeline();
   pipelines.put(session.getId(), pipeline);

   WebRtcEndpoint webRtcEndpoint = new WebRtcEndpoint.Builder(pipeline)
         .build();
   pointerDetectorFilter = new PointerDetectorFilter.Builder(pipeline,
         new WindowParam(5, 5, 30, 30)).build();
   pointerDetectorFilter
         .addWindow(new PointerDetectorWindowMediaParam("window0",
               50, 50, 500, 150));
   pointerDetectorFilter
         .addWindow(new PointerDetectorWindowMediaParam("window1",
               50, 50, 500, 250));

   webRtcEndpoint.connect(pointerDetectorFilter);
   pointerDetectorFilter.connect(webRtcEndpoint);

   pointerDetectorFilter
         .addWindowInListener(new EventListener<WindowInEvent>() {
            @Override
            public void onEvent(WindowInEvent event) {
               JsonObject response = new JsonObject();
               response.addProperty("id", "windowIn");
               response.addProperty("roiId", event.getWindowId());
               try {
                  session.sendMessage(new TextMessage(response
                        .toString()));
               } catch (Throwable t) {
                  sendError(session, t.getMessage());
               }
            }
         });

   pointerDetectorFilter
         .addWindowOutListener(new EventListener<WindowOutEvent>() {

            @Override
            public void onEvent(WindowOutEvent event) {
               JsonObject response = new JsonObject();
               response.addProperty("id", "windowOut");
               response.addProperty("roiId", event.getWindowId());
               try {
                  session.sendMessage(new TextMessage(response
                        .toString()));
               } catch (Throwable t) {
                  sendError(session, t.getMessage());
               }
            }
         });

The following picture illustrates the pointer tracking in one of the defined
windows:

.. figure:: ../../images/kurento-module-tutorial-pointerdetector-screenshot-02.png
   :align:   center
   :alt:     Pointer tracking over a window

   *Pointer tracking over a window*

In order to send the calibration message from the client side, this function is
used in the JavaScript side of this demo:

.. sourcecode:: javascript

   function calibrate() {
      console.log("Calibrate color");
      
      var message = {
            id : 'calibrate'
         }
      sendMessage(message);
   }

When this message is received in the application server side, this code is
execute to carry out the calibration:

.. sourcecode:: java

   private void calibrate(WebSocketSession session, JsonObject jsonMessage) {
      if (pointerDetectorFilter != null) {
         pointerDetectorFilter.trackColorFromCalibrationRegion();
      }
   }

Dependencies
============

This Java Spring application is implemented using `Maven`:term:. The relevant
part of the *pom.xml* is where Kurento dependencies are declared. As the
following snippet shows, we need three dependencies: the Kurento Client Java
dependency (*kurento-client*), the JavaScript Kurento utility library
(*kurento-utils*) for the client-side, and the pointer detector module
(*pointerdetector*):

.. sourcecode:: xml 

   <dependencies> 
      <dependency>
         <groupId>org.kurento</groupId>
         <artifactId>kurento-client</artifactId>
         <version>[5.0.0,6.0.0)</version>
      </dependency> 
      <dependency> 
         <groupId>org.kurento</groupId>
         <artifactId>kurento-utils-js</artifactId> 
         <version>[5.0.0,6.0.0)</version>
      </dependency>
      <dependency>
         <groupId>org.kurento.module</groupId>
         <artifactId>pointerdetector</artifactId>
         <version>[1.0.0,2.0.0)</version>
      </dependency>
   </dependencies>

Kurento framework uses `Semantic Versioning`:term: for releases. Notice that
ranges (``[5.0.0,6.0.0)`` for *kurento-client* and *kurento-utils-js*,  and
``[1.0.0,2.0.0)`` for *pointerdetector*) downloads the latest version of
Kurento artifacts from Maven Central.

